# RP3 Math Notebook (Energy Resource Modelling)

Run `RP3_Math_Energy_Notebook.ipynb` in Jupyter/VSCode.

Data files live in `data/`. Keep the notebook and `data/` folder together.

Change `TECH` near the top of the notebook to select your assigned technology.

# Summary of the RP3 Math Notebook

The first component we coded was the trapezoidal integration, which is utilized throughout the notebook to calculate energy as a function of time. There were six technologies addressed in the notebook: fermentation, water, solar, wind, nuclear fission and geothermal. For the fermentation component, we converted RNG into consistent units which was explained in the markdown. We also clarified the units of Yfood and Ytotal. We also discussed the limitations of a normalized yield of 100%, as it suggests no downtime which is unrealistic to real performance. Lastly, we addressed the significance of the difference between the values of alpha and beta, and specifically how if alpha is greater than beta, it means more energy is produced by foodscraps than sludge. For water, we designated plausible H and efficiency values and computed daily power using the formula for hydropower and annual energy using the trapezoidal integration function (trapz_integral). For solar, we designated plausible area size and efficiency values and justified them with information from Builders Ontario and Exactus Energy. We computed hourly output power using the PV model and annual energy using the trapezoidal integration function (trapz_integral). For wind, we designated reasonable parameters such as rotor radius and power coefficient with our knowledge of the Betz Law and also with Canada Energy Regulator's information of average rotor diameter. We computed rotor swept area with the formula for the area of a circle and annual energy using the trapezoidal integration function (trapz_integral). For nuclear fission, we computed capacity factor with the formula found in the notebook using the trapezoidal integration function (trapz_integral) and also converting the annual energy in GWh by dividing EMWh by 1000. Lastly, for geothermal, we computed annual energy using the trapezoidal integration function (trapz_integral) and computed capacity factor by dividing the annual energy by the maximum possible annual energy the plant could produce. It is important to note that all the mathematical models are driven by actual datasets for each technology. 

Interpretation for P1 Nuclear Fission:

This graph displays the relationship between power output over time within a 30 day span. Within this figure, the power output remained relatively consistent throughout the month, with occasional outages. This is supported by the capacity factor of 0.867 which indidcates a reliable source that was active but experienced occasional downtime during outages. The power output was around 900-1000 MW for the majority of the time, whereas outages occurred at when Power(MW) = 0.

In the phase two of the notebook we implemented parameters to premade functions based on our given location. The parameters were for the maximum storage, maximum output, maximum, baseline demand, and daily aperture swing. The values were found through computation and external research and then applied to the functions. This outputted a graph of an average demand over 7 days for our respective town. By using this graph we can see when there is a high energy demand and select a source of energy based upon this. The second graph that was computed showed the storage state if a lithium ion battery was attached to our chosen nuclear reactor considering nuclear reactors do not have a storage capacity. The third and final graph depicted a discrete model against an ODE model showcasing the storage capacity if given a domain. 

To run this file, make sure to download all of the appropriate datasets for each technology. Open RP3_Math_Energy_Notebook_ Group10(1)(1).ipynb file and to plot the technology you want, make sure you indicate it by adding one of the prompts to "TECH" variable. These are the technology names needed to run the file: "Fermentation","Water","Solar","Wind","Nuclear Fission","Geothermal". Then launch the notebook and ensure you have all the necessary python packages. When running this file, make sure to run cells from top to bottom. 
